[Music]
okay got a question for you do you worry
when your body does weird things like
sweat when you're nervous you forget an
awesome dream or get carsick on a long
ride it's puzzling huh let's hop into
our submarine of discovery and dive deep
into why these strange tricks of our
bodies happen number one why do we bite
our lips how often do you find yourself
biting your lips one reason you do is
psychological this bad habit appears
with stress and anxiety our brain gives
our body an order to bite our lips so
that we think less about problems and
calm down there's also a less
psychological reason it could be just
that your lips are chapped because of
the cold your brain tells you to bite
your lips to refresh them but in the end
you get the opposite effect
cracked and painfully irritated lips
better grab some chapstick - why do we
forget dreams it happens that you have
such a cool dream that you could
immediately write a Hollywood script
from it but as soon as you wake up you
forget 90% of it the brain prevents you
from remembering your dreams for your
own good we remember the past
structurally logically and in a certain
order
dreams are chaotic full of symbolism and
strange images so the brain thinks this
guy already has enough on his plate in
real life he doesn't need that dream
consuming his thoughts yes my brain has
a bad French accent so anyway we often
wake up with thoughts about the coming
day so the dream immediately gets kicked
out of your memory bank 3 why do we wake
up before the alarm clock yeah brain why
do you cut my sleep short maybe the old
thing care is worried about being late
for work or class no it's just that
waking up to an alarm clock is a big
shot for the body
to avoid this unnecessary stress the
brain releases a protein that's
responsible for wakefulness it'd be
pretty handy if you could fine tune this
superpower then you can forget about
ever over sleeping number four we can't
stand being tickled yet why do we react
to it with laughter well it's because
the most ticklish area is the armpits
and the stomach happen to cover vital
organs and arteries so Nature has made
them very sensitive response to that
sensation can border on pleasure since
all those nerves are being stimulated
and fear for your important innards so
you immediately try to guard these areas
laugh until you cry and beg the tickler
to please stop
but get this when we tickle ourselves
the body immediately sends a signal to
the brain there is no danger don't react
to this day tickling is still a bit of a
mystery to scientists five why do we
sweat when we get nervous we get visible
armpit stains at the most inopportune
moments during a speech on a date at a
job interview I know it's embarrassing
but your body is trying to protect you
it releases sweat in response to any
danger or stress if you were an early
human trying to get out of a headlock
with a rival then your wet skin would be
slippery sweaty palms also cling to tree
branches better next time you're giving
a presentation just remember you'll be
able to slip out of an enemy's grip and
climb up a tree
yeah that's handy number six how does
the weather give you a headache
well when the weather changes the air
pressure changes your blood vessels and
nerves feel this difference in pressure
and react they expand get smaller or
spasm in an ideal situation these
vessels are elastic and quickly recover
when the weather changes drastically but
for some people their vessels and nerves
can't keep up so you get a pressure
difference between the inside of your
body and the outside the result pain
in the form of a headache or migraine
and fYI your body is telling you to find
a more comfortable environment
number seven why do we feel car sickness
over thousands of years of evolution the
human brain has become accustomed to two
types of movement walking and running in
comparison to human history cars
appeared not so long ago so the brain
hasn't completely adapted when you're
sitting in a car your muscles are
relaxed which means there are no signs
that movement is occurring yet the inner
ear which controls balance feels that
there is movement the brain comes to a
logical conclusion what's the best
reaction to poisoning nausea number II
white a skin darken in the Sun yet hair
gets lighter every time you sunbathe a
real battle is taking place on the
surface of your skin the Sun emits
ultraviolet rays that are harmful to our
bodies to defend itself your skin starts
producing a special pigment melanin it
steps forward and bravely takes a hit
and absorbs ultraviolet light with more
and more pigment being produced the skin
gets darker now with hair things are a
little different it does have small
reserves of melanin but it can't produce
it like your skin can so the Sun quickly
burns all the melanin reserves and the
hair loses a little pigment it's like
the nursery rhyme this little pigment
went to market this little pigment
stayed home this little pigment had what
oh that's Piggy's not pigment never mind
ix why do we hear ringing in the ears to
understand what causes that ringing you
need to know how the ear works the inner
part of your ear is covered in thousands
of tiny hair cells that vibrate when
they made a sound wave these vibrations
caused a nerve impulse that's sent to
the brain the brain processes the signal
and we hear sounds but if we listen to
loud music often those nerve cells get
damaged and over time they stop working
efficiently
and can send false signals to the brain
even if there was no sound wave that
false signal is a sudden ringing 10 ever
stood up too fast and gotten dizzy and
lightheaded when you quickly go from a
lying position to a standing one the
blood in your body drops to your feet
and legs
thanks a lot gravity luckily your body
recovers quickly and blood flow returns
to your brain easing the dizzy feeling
11 white is crying cause that weird lump
in the throat
yet again evolution gives us the answer
when a person is in any stressful
situation the brain recognizes this as a
threat yes even if you're just crying
over a sad movie your body sends all the
available oxygen into your muscles to
prepare to fight or run away this is
called the fight-or-flight response the
throat muscles expand to get more oxygen
so trying to swallow around your swollen
muscles is what causes that lumpy
feeling 12 is it true that our heart
stops during a sneeze huh everyone's
heard about this while sneezing the body
freezes and the heart stops but in fact
it's a myth from the Middle Ages you
know back before there was science to
explain these things people believed
that during a sneeze the body let go of
too much air and that it could stop your
heart forever back then people didn't
know that sneezing is the body's way to
get rid of itchy things from their nose
13 why do we get lazy after a big meal
well this one takes us back to the
caveman days our body needs a few basics
for survival including food and water
you're more active when you're hungry
you're a caveman brain
it's telling you to look for food but as
soon as you have eaten your brain thinks
oh sweet I got all I need so now it's
time to save this energy your brain
makes you lazy to store the energy that
you got from your food for longer
speaking of our brain 14 why is it hard
to wake up on weekdays and so easy to
wake up on the weekend the reason is
quite funny our brain perceives going to
school or work as a threat and tries to
protect us from this dress by keeping us
in bed if you want to wake up ready to
take on the day try thinking about what
a great day tomorrow will be before you
go to bed let me know how well it works
out for you in the comments
number 15 why do we get cramps when we
run if you've ever experienced a running
cramp you know that it can be super
uncomfortable the good news is that it
is totally normal as you are running
your blood doesn't have enough time to
spread out evenly in your body and hangs
out in your liver and spleen this extra
blood is what causes the cramping
feeling an easy fix for this problem
just make sure you warm up well before
your workout hey if you learn something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life